>> Brian Holt: Who has ever tried to get
a 100% test coverage in one of their
code bases?
Raise your hand so I can shame you.
[LAUGH] I think it's a fool's errand,
right?
I think it's a fool's errand to
go after 100% test coverage and
there are people that are vehemently
disagreed with me, but
I think it makes you end up testing things
that are just not Important to be tested.
That being said,
I'm gonna show you just the greatest and
easiest hack to do 100% test coverage,
and it's called snapshot testing,
and I show it to you because it's a
low-effort, low-confidence way of testing.
And as soon as you say low confidence,
I'm out.
If it's low confidence,
then what am I doing, right?
Why am I doing this?
But they're so easy to write that I'll
kinda let you be the judge of it,
some people do like them.
I think they're kind of discouraged now,
but they're so fast to show that.
I was like, yeah, I might as well.
So we're gonna make another file here,
we're gonna test which file here?
We're gonna test cart.jsx.
So cart.test.jsx, this is just
a dumb display component, right?
It doesn't really do very much
other than display stuff.
So this is actually the best case
scenario for using snapshot testing.
The only thing snapshot testing does is it
renders out the entire component and says,
it looks like this and
then it tracks that.
And so if you run that that
snapshot test again and
it looks different than it did last
time you ran it then it fails the test.
It says something changed you
can either update this or
something happened that
you didn't anticipate.
I'll show you what I mean import,
expect and test from vitest.
Import render from
@testing library and
import cart from --
/Cart
>> Brian Holt: Test
snapshot with nothing in cart.
>> Brian Holt: You can make this a sync,
if you want to.
I didn't know my notes, so I won't hear.
So you can say const AsFragment = render,
>> Brian Holt: There we go, cart, cart.
>> Brian Holt: Okay?
And then I'm gonna say expect asFragment,
which is a function toMatchSnapshot.
>> Brian Holt: That's it,
that is the entire test that
you have to write right there.
So, let's dive into what
this actually means.
It actually already ran, right?
Because I have my vitest running here, so
it's already run this for the first time.
You'll notice this magical underscore,
_snapshots that we didn't
create showed up in our folder.
And if you click into this you will see
this random file that it generates.
>> Brian Holt: Div, cart, class, so
this is actually kind of
what it looks like, right?
When this gets rendered out
without anything in the cart,
you do check this in by the way,
because you wanna make sure that
even across commits that it
doesn't change over time.
But let's just say I erroneously one day,
come in here,
I changed the nist name to, well,
since I'm 12 years old, fart.
It's gonna fail my test, right?
It expected cart, and it got fart and
that's the kind of test that this is,
right?
It's just being like between all the
various different renders everything is
looking the same.
I came with, I said, fart professionally,
I am an adult, I promise.
But now if I change you back, you'll
see that the test pass again, right?
>> Speaker 2: It was an honest mistake.
>> Brian Holt: Honest mistake, [LAUGH].
>> Speaker 2: Anybody?
>> Brian Holt: Yep, so let's say
that becomes our branding now and
that's what we wanna do and
this is really what we want.
We can actually come in here and
you press U, right, and it'll update it.
And so now, notice that this is now
written out, so it is written in stone or
commits that this is actually
what we intended for it to do.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, but
we should probably change that back so
we don't get fired.
>> Brian Holt: So
change that to cart, save it.
We'll fail the test, but you can just
hit update and update the snapshot.
>> Brian Holt: So I hope you see what
I'm saying when this is low effort.
This was what,
how many lines of code, not many,
like the test itself is
literally just two, but
it is low confidence because that's so
easy to break, right?
And let's say that you have like
components tested in component.
That's it in components and
your snapshot will encapsulate
everything through all of those.
So if I have seven layers deep,
another component and it changes,
it's going to fail all of the snapshot
chests all the way up, right?
So this is what I say is like, I don't
really use them too much because they
break and they're annoying and
they're not telling me anything, right?
Like UI changes constantly.
I think we're all familiar that if you're
in this course that we're all constantly
changing and updating and it's like,
I don't wanna update my
snapshots every single time.
So unless I have something that I'm really
intending to kinda stay set in stone,
I don't I don't really use them too much.
Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: I think you got to the core
of it, but I was wondering about a use
case for this kind of testing and
it seems like if anything,
it seems like a finished feature that
should not be impacted by other things,
but not very high level because
it's gonna be impacted by.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah and it's gonna be like
pretty UI focused cuz this encapsulates
none of the logic part of it, right?
So something like cart where it's
really just a dumb display component,
I still don't know if I endorse it though,
right?
>> Speaker 2: Headers and footers and nav
bars and things feel about right for me.
>> Brian Holt: It could, it could.
The reason why I brought up
the 100% test coverage is,
this really helps with test coverage,
right?
Because everything gets run very easily,
So the one place I saw someone
doing it that I was like okay,
that makes some sense to me is they
were using it for their API formattters.
So the nice thing about snapshot test
where I'm showing you with react, but
you can use them with any
object in JavaScript, right?
So I don't know,
let's just write another random test here.
Test and I do something like this.
And I say, well, let's describe that
test pizza that I had in UsepizzaOfTheDay.
Let's say I was writing a node service.
This was the result that I
wanted to give back to the user.
>> Brian Holt: So
I would say this toMatchSnapshot.
>> Brian Holt: So it's gonna run that
the first time it'll run it, and
now if I look at my snapshots.
>> Brian Holt: I think this is kind of
compelling, because now your front end and
your backend are very in
tune with each other,
that they have to have
the same contract of the API.
The backend is gonna send this,
the front end is gonna receive this.
This makes sense to me that we're
making sure that our object shapes for
API returns and stay in sync.
That makes sense to me,
I'm okay with that.
This seems like an okay use
of snapshot testing for me,
matching something like this.
Yeah, I'm kinda out to be honest with you.
It's gonna show you one more thing that's
kind of a weird way to do this, so
I'm gonna save this.
I think it's gonna fail cuz it's
having one less snapshot than it has.
It has an obsolete snapshot.
So I still think you have to say update,
there you go.
>> Brian Holt: There we go.
Okay, so that ran, yeah,
so I have smash snapshot.
There's another way you can do this and
it's called Inline.
And I'm gonna run this, and it's gonna
populate it, right there in the file.
>> Brian Holt: Some people prefer
that instead of the snapshot files.
I don`t know, seems weird,
I like it the other way better.